---
title: 'IRC Channel moved to #osuosc'
---
Our IRC channel #osu_osc has been moved over to #osuosc on freenode. The older channel is currently setup to forward people over to the newer channel. This was done for several reasons, a few of which are to make our channel name match up with the cloaks we provide ([more about how freenode operates](https://freenode.net/group_registration.shtml)), and simplify the channel name. A few new things you may notice, besides the name, are that everyone is +v (voiced) upon joining the channel and a few new modes set. The voice is [a work around](http://swhack.com/logs/2011-03-08#T18-50-27) for those who the IRCd may consider typing too fast or pasting anything more than a few lines. Also those with the @osuosc/* cloaks are +e and +I'ed on the room. The +e means that those with the cloaks are exempt from any bans or quiets, and the +I means that those with the cloaks can join if the room becomes +i for any reason in the future (even if temporarily). The ACL (Access Control List) remains the same from the previous room, /msg ChanServ access #osuosc list. For an explanation of all the channel modes set at any give time you can pull up help in two places: **/quote help cmode** or [freenode's guide to "Using the network"](https://freenode.net/using_the_network.shtml). (Note the /quote command also works for user modes too, **/quote help umode**.) Also at this time the channel #osuosc-ops was created for those who have privileges on #osuosc to handle any type of dispute that may arise in the future from a ban. This channel will primarily be for handling any type of disputes that may arise from a ban or any other channel management. This channel is logged for internal use of the ops. The rules for the channel remain the same as previously set and remember the channel is still logged.
