---
layout: home
title: 'Updated: Student Involvement Fair/Ohio LinuxFest pamphlet'
created: 1157923826
categories: announcements
---
As part of our participation in the <a href="http://ohiounion.osu.edu/studentorgs/events_involvement.asp">Student Involvement Fair</a> and <a href="http://www.ohiolinux.org">Ohio LinuxFest 2006</a> I&#39;d like to hand out pamphets that showcase who we are and our upcoming meetings. I&#39;ve started work on it, and would appriciate any idea or comments you may have on it. You can download it at the bottom of the page in OpenDocument and PDF formats.  Edit: The automatic uploader is not working, due to possible SELinux issues. I&#39;ve linked to the files manually, and will look into the issue.
<!--break-->
Release notes: <ol> <li>It is in greyscale, as color printed through SOURCE is more expensive.</li> <li>It is 3 2/3&quot; x 8&quot;, so three can be printed on a single sheet of 8&quot; x 11&quot; paper.</li> <li><strike>Peter hasn&#39;t confirmed with me that he will give his talk on 10/19.</strike></li> <li>Jim hasn&#39;t decided on the topic of his talk, so I have put &quot;Kitten Huffing&quot; as a placeholder until he does.</li> <li><strike>I&#39;m going to rewrite the &quot;Welcome Back!&quot; text.</strike></li> <li>Part of the open source description and the net neutrality description are taken from Wikipedia. I plan on rewriting the net neutrality copy, but like the open source description. If we use it, we will have to place a <a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.txt">GNU Free Documentation License</a> boilerplate at the bottom.</li> <li>The pamphlet will be updated for Ohio LinuxFest to remove references to previous meetings and to include information on more upcoming meetings.</li><li>I&#39;ve added a condensed form of Peter&#39;s talk description.</li><li>I&#39;ve changed the size of the OSUOSS logo. </li> </ol><p>  For those who do not want to download the files, here is the complete text of the pamphlet:</p><p>[Open Source Club logo]</p><p>A student and community organization dedicated to the idea of open source software. Open source software is computer software whose source code is available under a copyright license that permits users to study, change, and improve the software.</p><p>Upcoming Meetings</p><p>(All meetings are held in Dreese 480 at 7:00pm.)</p><p>Thursday September 21st - Welcome Back! </p><p class="textblock">Come learn what the Open Source Club has planned for the future and discuss what you would like to see happen in this new year.</p> <p>&nbsp;</p><p> Tuesday September 26th - Pulse Audio Demo</p><p>Pulse Audio is a new sound server that will officially make its debut in GNOME 2.18 and is going to have some new tricks that will be quite handy.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Thursday October 5th - Net Neutrality </p><p class="textblock">Learn what net neutrality legislation means to popular destinations such as Google and YouTube and find out about what is being hailed as a clash between the grass-roots movements of bloggers verse the Astro-Turf coalitions of our ISPs. Come and voice your opinion!</p> <p>&nbsp;</p><p>Tuesday October 10th  - Kitten Huffing Kitten huffing is a controversial practice that has recently been growing as a popular and healthy alternative to street drugs. Despite a long history in Western culture, the practice remains largely taboo.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Thursday October 19th - Defective By Design Defective By Design is the Free Software Foundation&#39;s campaign against Digital Rights Management --- The restrictive software used in software, CDs, and DVDs  to restrict what consumers can do with their media.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>http://opensource.cse.ohio-state.edu</p>
