---
layout: multipage
multipage: true
date: 2020-02-19
collection: news
stories:
- title: "LibreLingo: An experiment to create a community driven, Libre, language-learning platform"
  link: 'https://github.com/kantord/LibreLingo'
  notes: |
    > My goal is to start a community-driven language-learning platform that gives it's users and contributors a way to influence it's future and adapt it to special requirements. To achieve that, I release all source code under the GPLv3 free software license, which guarantees end users the freedom to run, study, share, and modify the software. In addition to licensing the software under a free software license, the course content will be decoupled from the software itself, and the development of GPLv3 or public domain course content will be encouraged. This should allow course developers to retain the freedom to choose how they use their work. Once course content is properly decoupled from the software, it should be possible to experiment with alternative ways of using course content: for example, the creation of audiobooks or print material.

- title: "MyPaint 2.0 is Here With Brushes, Python 3 Support and More Features"
  link: 'https://itsfoss.com/mypaint-2-release/'
  notes: |
    > MyPaint is one of the top open source alternatives to Microsoft Paint. It’s a handy little tool that allows you to quickly sketch and draw. While there are more sophisticated open source tools for digital artists like Krita, MyPaint is not too bad for light sketching.

- title: "elementary OS is Building an App Center Where You Can Buy Open Source Apps for Your Linux Distribution"
  link: 'https://itsfoss.com/appcenter-for-everyone/'
  notes: |
    This idea was inspired by the success of elementary os's previous 'Pay What You Want' app-center model. The goal is to help individual developers earn their money from their FOSS products.
